My first ever research project in cosmology and large scale structure was conducted in collaboration with National Astronomical Observatories of China and Durham University in the UK. I studied the peculiar cosmic velocity field and how we can use its statistics to differentiate different cosmological models. In theory, the velocity field of the matter contains more information than the matter alone since it also captures different dynamics among the matter. According to Helmholtz's theorem, any sufficiently smooth, rapidly decaying vector field in three dimensions can be decomposed into a divergence-only component VE and a curl-only component VB. The curl-only component  VB tells us the relative motion between nearby galaxies. The divergence-only component VE for the velocity field has a strong physical meaning: it is largely driven by gravity. Therefore, we can use the continuity equation of fluid dynamics to calculate the density-correlated component Vd which is driven by density. The remnant component of divergence,  VS= VE - Vd captures the stochastic movement of the galaxies induced by external/unknown force or energy. This could be the extra force introduced in the modified gravity model. For this study, I worked with f(R) (a modified gravity model) simulations data provided by researchers at Durham, examining in detail the model dependence of the velocity field. I started the project by writing python programs to practice writing algorithms for particle interpolation, velocity field decomposition, and the matter & decomposed velocity power spectra calculation using the millennium simulation data. My results show that the density-uncorrelated divergence component of the peculiar velocity VS is the most appropriate one to differentiatef(R)cosmology from ΛCDM cosmology. Even for an f(R) model with fR0=10-6, the power spectrum of the VScomponents can reach 13% higher than General Relativity at k=0.2h/Mpc. This signal is significant and could be checked in forthcoming observational data, which promises a new way to constrain the gravity models. 
