Unlike in cosmology where the ultimate goal for research is to find out the fundamental laws of physics that govern our universe, research in the field of multimessenger astrophysics concerns less with the fundamental laws. The field aims to find the meaning of astrophysical signals from compact objects and to understand the astrophysical processes that create them. For example, when we receive a gravitational wave signal for a merging event, we want to infer the mass of the merging objects, and the galactical environment for this event. This can be achieved by using N-body simulation. For each of the 80 simulations, we set different initial conditions for sparsity (how dense are stars in the cluster) and total mass of the globular cluster. During the evolution of globular clusters, few body interactions between stars are occurring as a probability distribution of distance between objects and masses of objects. These few body interactions are critical for producing gravitational wave signals that we can observe. The monte-carlo method is used to bootstrap from the probability distribution. After the clusters are involved until the current age of the observable universe, we calculate the statistical profiles for compact objects in each cluster. By doing that, we come up with a compact objects and mergers catalog for clusters, so that when a newly observed gravitational wave event happens, we can infer (by bayesian statistics) the underlying physical processes that create the event with a confidence interval using our cluster catalog.
