Currently there are several competing cosmological models to explain the accelerated expansion of the universe. To differentiate which model describes our universe the best, we need precise observations and well-studied statistical methods. The large scale structure (LSS) of the universe contains cosmological information for us to decode the underlying model. A fundamental way to describe LSS is the second order correlation function of matter (including galaxies and dark matter) in the universe, and its fourier form, the power spectrum (see section 3A of my paper). To put it in a simple way: consider galaxies distributed in our universe. If we have a galaxy at location (x0, y0), the correlation function sigma(r) describes the probability of finding another galaxy at distance r from (x0, y0). However, second order statistics alone do not usually give us enough cosmological information, especially at small scales. Higher order statistics are needed to determine the underlying physical model with higher precision. The difficulties with obtaining higher order statistics come from two aspects: on the observational side, we don’t have fine enough telescopes to capture the detailed structure, nor is our observational history long enough to measure velocities of galaxies. On the computational side, the computational resources required grow exponentially as the order of statistics grows. Therefore, we need to devise statistical methods to construct and approximate higher order statistics from the second order statistics. One way to do that is by considering the “separate universe” scenario in which we embed the statistics of our current observable universe in a larger cosmological background (see section 3B and 3C of my paper). My specific research measures the matter power spectrum responses of the separate universe approach. Such responses have been used in the past to approximate the higher order statistics of LSS, which is crucial to analyze the data from future surveys such as Euclid and LSST. However, when using the response approach, past researchers have assumed that those responses have no dependence on the underlying cosmological parameters we used in simulations. In order to determine if cosmological dependence can be a concern, I ran a large set of separate universe simulations with different parameters of matter density of the universe, and characterized the dependence of the responses on these parameters by measuring the nonlinear regime of structure formation. 
